
 vllm/docs/features/automatic_prefix_caching.md at main · vllm-project/vllm · GitHub 
 Skip to content 
 Navigation Menu Sign in Appearance settings Platform AI CODE CREATION GitHub Copilot Write better code with AI GitHub Copilot app Direct agents from issue to merge MCP Registry Integrate external tools DEVELOPER WORKFLOWS Actions Automate any workflow Codespaces Instant dev environments Issues Plan and track work Code Review Manage code changes Code Quality Enforce quality at merge APPLICATION SECURITY GitHub Advanced Security Find and fix vulnerabilities Code security Secure your code as you build Secret protection Stop leaks before they start EXPLORE Why GitHub Documentation Blog Changelog Marketplace View all features Solutions BY COMPANY SIZE Enterprises Small and medium teams Startups Nonprofits BY USE CASE App Modernization DevSecOps DevOps CI/CD View all use cases BY INDUSTRY Healthcare Financial services Manufacturing Government View all industries View all solutions Resources EXPLORE BY TOPIC AI Software Development DevOps Security View all topics EXPLORE BY TYPE Customer stories Events & webinars Ebooks & reports Business insights GitHub Skills SUPPORT & SERVICES Documentation Customer support Community forum Trust center Partners View all resources Open Source COMMUNITY GitHub Sponsors Fund open source developers PROGRAMS Security Lab Maintainer Community GitHub Stars Archive Program REPOSITORIES Topics Trending Collections Enterprise ENTERPRISE SOLUTIONS Enterprise platform AI-powered developer platform AVAILABLE ADD-ONS GitHub Advanced Security Enterprise-grade security features Copilot for Business Enterprise-grade AI features Premium Support Enterprise-grade 24/7 support Pricing Search / Sign in Sign up Appearance settings 
 You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 Dismiss alert 
 {{ message }} 
 Uh oh!
 There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . 
 vllm-project
 / 
 vllm 
 Public 
 Uh oh!
 There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . 
 Notifications
 You must be signed in to change notification settings 
 Fork
 22.1k 
 Star
 91.6k 
 Code 
 Issues 
 2.4k 
 Pull requests 
 5k+ 
 Discussions 
 Actions 
 Projects 
 Security and quality 
 76 
 Insights 
 Additional navigation options 
 Code
 Issues
 Pull requests
 Discussions
 Actions
 Projects
 Security and quality
 Insights
 Files Expand file tree main Breadcrumbs vllm / docs / features / automatic_prefix_caching.md Copy path Blame More file actions Blame More file actions Latest commit History History History 47 lines (29 loc) · 3.62 KB main Breadcrumbs vllm / docs / features / automatic_prefix_caching.md Copy path Top File metadata and controls Preview Code Blame 47 lines (29 loc) · 3.62 KB Raw Copy raw file Download raw file Outline Edit and raw actions Automatic Prefix Caching 
 Introduction 
 Automatic Prefix Caching (APC in short) caches the KV cache of existing queries, so that a new query can directly reuse the KV cache if it shares the same prefix with one of the existing queries, allowing the new query to skip the computation of the shared part. 
 !!! note
Technical details on how vLLM implements APC can be found here . 
 Enabling APC in vLLM 
 Set enable_prefix_caching=True in vLLM engine to enable APC. Here is an example: 
 examples/features/automatic_prefix_caching/automatic_prefix_caching_offline.py 
 Hybrid Mamba models 
 Under --mamba-cache-mode align , Mamba state is stored only on the Mamba block grid, so a prefix-cache hit can resume only at a block boundary. --enable-mamba-fine-grained-prefix-cache also stores a checkpoint at the shared-prefix junction, the point where an earlier request with the same prefix stopped. Requests whose shared prefix ends inside a block can then reuse it. 
 This helps when many requests share a long system prompt and then diverge. It is off by default, and takes effect only when all of the following hold: 
 --mamba-cache-mode align 
 EAGLE/MTP speculative decoding on the Mamba group 
 --prefix-match-unit smaller than the Mamba block size 
 the model does not use multi-module MTP 
 vllm serve < hybrid-model > \
 --mamba-cache-mode align \
 --prefix-match-unit 64 \
 --enable-mamba-fine-grained-prefix-cache 
 --prefix-match-unit is required. It sets the granularity at which prefix-cache keys are computed. When unset it defaults to the greatest common divisor of the prefix-cacheable KV cache group block sizes. Under align that is the block size itself, so no sub-block boundary exists and the flag has no effect. 
 Choose a value that divides the block size of every prefix-cacheable KV cache group, and that is a multiple of the per-state compression ratio for models that use one, such as sparse MLA. vLLM validates both at startup and names the offending sizes in the error. Read the served block size from the startup log. 64 is a reasonable starting point. 
 Example workloads 
 We describe two example workloads, where APC can provide huge performance benefit: 
 Long document query, where the user repeatedly queries the same long document (e.g. software manual or annual report) with different queries. In this case, instead of processing the long document again and again, APC allows vLLM to process this long document only once , and all future requests can avoid recomputing this long document by reusing its KV cache. This allows vLLM to serve future requests with much higher throughput and much lower latency. 
 Multi-round conversation, where the user may chat with the application multiple times in the same chatting session. In this case, instead of processing the whole chatting history again and again, APC allows vLLM to reuse the processing results of the chat history across all future rounds of conversation, allowing vLLM to serve future requests with much higher throughput and much lower latency. 
 Limits 
 APC in general does not reduce the performance of vLLM. With that being said, APC only reduces the time of processing the queries (the prefilling phase) and does not reduce the time of generating new tokens (the decoding phase). So APC does not bring performance gain when vLLM spends most of the time generating answers to the queries (e.g. when the length of the answer is long), or new queries do not share the same prefix with any of existing queries (so that the computation cannot be reused). 
 Footer 
 © 2026 GitHub, Inc.
 Footer navigation 
 Terms 
 Privacy 
 Security 
 Status 
 Community 
 Docs 
 Contact 
 Manage cookies
 Do not share my personal information
 You can’t perform that action at this time.
