Issues · pytorch/ao · GitHub 

 Skip to content 

 Navigation Menu
 
 Sign in Appearance settings

 Platform AI CODE CREATION GitHub Copilot Write better code with AI 
 GitHub Copilot app Direct agents from issue to merge 
 MCP Registry Integrate external tools 

 DEVELOPER WORKFLOWS Actions Automate any workflow 
 Codespaces Instant dev environments 
 Issues Plan and track work 
 Code Review Manage code changes 
 Code Quality Enforce quality at merge 

 APPLICATION SECURITY GitHub Advanced Security Find and fix vulnerabilities 
 Code security Secure your code as you build 
 Secret protection Stop leaks before they start 

 EXPLORE Why GitHub 
 Documentation 
 Blog 
 Changelog 
 Marketplace 

 View all features 

 Solutions BY COMPANY SIZE Enterprises 
 Small and medium teams 
 Startups 
 Nonprofits 

 BY USE CASE App Modernization 
 DevSecOps 
 DevOps 
 CI/CD 
 View all use cases 

 BY INDUSTRY Healthcare 
 Financial services 
 Manufacturing 
 Government 
 View all industries 

 View all solutions 

 Resources EXPLORE BY TOPIC AI 
 Software Development 
 DevOps 
 Security 
 View all topics 

 EXPLORE BY TYPE Customer stories 
 Events & webinars 
 Ebooks & reports 
 Business insights 
 GitHub Skills 

 SUPPORT & SERVICES Documentation 
 Customer support 
 Community forum 
 Trust center 
 Partners 

 View all resources 

 Open Source COMMUNITY GitHub Sponsors Fund open source developers 

 PROGRAMS Security Lab 
 Maintainer Community 
 GitHub Stars 
 Archive Program 

 REPOSITORIES Topics 
 Trending 
 Collections 

 Enterprise ENTERPRISE SOLUTIONS Enterprise platform AI-powered developer platform 

 AVAILABLE ADD-ONS GitHub Advanced Security Enterprise-grade security features 
 Copilot for Business Enterprise-grade AI features 
 Premium Support Enterprise-grade 24/7 support 

 Pricing 
 Search / 

 Sign in 
 Sign up Appearance settings

 You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 

 Dismiss alert 

 {{ message }}

 Uh oh!

 There was an error while loading. Please reload this page .

 pytorch
 
 / 
 
 ao 

 Public 

 Notifications
 You must be signed in to change notification settings 

 Fork
 620 

 Star
 3k 

 Code 

 Issues 
 300 

 Pull requests 
 484 

 Actions 

 Projects 

 Security and quality 
 0 

 Insights 

 Additional navigation options 

 Code

 Issues

 Pull requests

 Actions

 Projects

 Security and quality

 Insights

 Issues

 Assigned to me

 Created by me

 Mentioned

 Recent activity
 
 Views 
 Projects 
 Milestones 
 Labels 

 Feedback Preview 
 Collapse sidebar 
 
 All issues

 New issue Issue creation is restricted in this repository 

 Issues

 Search Issues is : pr is : closed in : comments "not worth" 
 is:pr is:closed in:comments "not worth" 

 Search 

 Search results
 Open
 
 Closed

 Refactor MXTensor: align the swizzle execution with the configured swizzle setting 
 ciflow/xpu label used to trigger xpu CI jobs label used to trigger xpu CI jobs 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 module: inference quantize_ api inference flow quantize_ api inference flow 
 xpu Intel XPU related features Intel XPU related features 
 
 Status: Merged (completed). 

 pytorch/ao number 4844 
 # 4844 In pytorch/ao; · by xiaowangintel was closed on Sep 9, 2026 

 Stop PruneOptimizer.__getattribute__ recursing (#4833) 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 meta-exported 
 module: optimizer quantized optimizers (torchao/optim) quantized optimizers (torchao/optim) 
 
 Status: Merged (completed). 

 pytorch/ao number 4833 
 # 4833 In pytorch/ao; · by sibuachu was closed on Aug 28, 2026 

 float8: work around Triton fp8 store miscompile in compiled training 
 ciflow/4xh100 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 module: training quantize_ api training flow quantize_ api training flow 
 
 Status: Merged (completed). 

 pytorch/ao number 4652 
 # 4652 In pytorch/ao; · by vkuzo was closed on Jul 30, 2026 

 cpu: lock ukernel registration tables 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 
 Status: Merged (completed). 

 pytorch/ao number 4561 
 # 4561 In pytorch/ao; · by nascheme was closed on Jul 10, 2026 

 kernel: avoid partial Triton lazy initialization 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 
 Status: Merged (completed). 

 pytorch/ao number 4553 
 # 4553 In pytorch/ao; · by nascheme was closed on Jul 20, 2026 

 Fix internal test_quantized_scaled_dot_product_op 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 module: not user facing Use this tag if you don't want this PR to show up in release notes Use this tag if you don't want this PR to show up in release notes 
 
 Status: Merged (completed). 

 pytorch/ao number 4472 
 # 4472 In pytorch/ao; · by andrewor14 was closed on Jun 12, 2026 

 [ROCm] Add HIP device synchronize event to profiler overhead filter 
 ciflow/rocm 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 module: rocm 
 
 Status: Merged (completed). 

 pytorch/ao number 4450 
 # 4450 In pytorch/ao; · by jagadish-amd was closed on Jul 6, 2026 

 Handle saturated eager float8 casts 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 module: training quantize_ api training flow quantize_ api training flow 
 topic: bug fix Use this tag for PRs that fix bugs Use this tag for PRs that fix bugs 
 
 Status: Merged (completed). 

 pytorch/ao number 4364 
 # 4364 In pytorch/ao; · by iamzainhuda was closed on May 8, 2026 

 [CPU] Rename Int4WeightOnlyOpaqueTensorConfig to PrototypeInt4WeightOnlyConfig 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 module: not user facing Use this tag if you don't want this PR to show up in release notes Use this tag if you don't want this PR to show up in release notes 
 
 Status: Merged (completed). 

 pytorch/ao number 4205 
 # 4205 In pytorch/ao; · by Xia-Weiwen was closed on Apr 1, 2026 

 skip certain mxfp8 tests for cuda < 12.8 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 module: not user facing Use this tag if you don't want this PR to show up in release notes Use this tag if you don't want this PR to show up in release notes 
 mx 
 
 Status: Merged (completed). 

 pytorch/ao number 3443 
 # 3443 In pytorch/ao; · by danielvegamyhre was closed on Dec 5, 2025 

 Add hqq support for Int4TilePackedTo4dTensor 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 topic: new feature Use this tag if this PR adds a new feature Use this tag if this PR adds a new feature 
 
 Status: Merged (completed). 

 pytorch/ao number 2912 
 # 2912 In pytorch/ao; · by jerryzh168 was closed on Sep 5, 2025 

 [moe training] work around wrap_triton bug by using normal custom ops instead for fp8 rowwise kernels 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 module: not user facing Use this tag if you don't want this PR to show up in release notes Use this tag if you don't want this PR to show up in release notes 
 moe 
 
 Status: Merged (completed). 

 pytorch/ao number 2734 
 # 2734 In pytorch/ao; · by danielvegamyhre was closed on Aug 15, 2025 

 Footer

 © 2026 GitHub, Inc.

 Footer navigation

 Terms 

 Privacy 

 Security 

 Status 

 Community 

 Docs 

 Contact 

 Manage cookies

 Do not share my personal information

 You can’t perform that action at this time.
