Issues · pytorch/ao · GitHub 

 Skip to content 

 Navigation Menu
 
 Sign in Appearance settings

 Platform AI CODE CREATION GitHub Copilot Write better code with AI 
 GitHub Copilot app Direct agents from issue to merge 
 MCP Registry Integrate external tools 

 DEVELOPER WORKFLOWS Actions Automate any workflow 
 Codespaces Instant dev environments 
 Issues Plan and track work 
 Code Review Manage code changes 
 Code Quality Enforce quality at merge 

 APPLICATION SECURITY GitHub Advanced Security Find and fix vulnerabilities 
 Code security Secure your code as you build 
 Secret protection Stop leaks before they start 

 EXPLORE Why GitHub 
 Documentation 
 Blog 
 Changelog 
 Marketplace 

 View all features 

 Solutions BY COMPANY SIZE Enterprises 
 Small and medium teams 
 Startups 
 Nonprofits 

 BY USE CASE App Modernization 
 DevSecOps 
 DevOps 
 CI/CD 
 View all use cases 

 BY INDUSTRY Healthcare 
 Financial services 
 Manufacturing 
 Government 
 View all industries 

 View all solutions 

 Resources EXPLORE BY TOPIC AI 
 Software Development 
 DevOps 
 Security 
 View all topics 

 EXPLORE BY TYPE Customer stories 
 Events & webinars 
 Ebooks & reports 
 Business insights 
 GitHub Skills 

 SUPPORT & SERVICES Documentation 
 Customer support 
 Community forum 
 Trust center 
 Partners 

 View all resources 

 Open Source COMMUNITY GitHub Sponsors Fund open source developers 

 PROGRAMS Security Lab 
 Maintainer Community 
 GitHub Stars 
 Archive Program 

 REPOSITORIES Topics 
 Trending 
 Collections 

 Enterprise ENTERPRISE SOLUTIONS Enterprise platform AI-powered developer platform 

 AVAILABLE ADD-ONS GitHub Advanced Security Enterprise-grade security features 
 Copilot for Business Enterprise-grade AI features 
 Premium Support Enterprise-grade 24/7 support 

 Pricing 
 Search / 

 Sign in 
 Sign up Appearance settings

 You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 

 Dismiss alert 

 {{ message }}

 Uh oh!

 There was an error while loading. Please reload this page .

 pytorch
 
 / 
 
 ao 

 Public 

 Notifications
 You must be signed in to change notification settings 

 Fork
 620 

 Star
 3k 

 Code 

 Issues 
 300 

 Pull requests 
 484 

 Actions 

 Projects 

 Security and quality 
 0 

 Insights 

 Additional navigation options 

 Code

 Issues

 Pull requests

 Actions

 Projects

 Security and quality

 Insights

 Issues

 Assigned to me

 Created by me

 Mentioned

 Recent activity
 
 Views 
 Projects 
 Milestones 
 Labels 

 Feedback Preview 
 Collapse sidebar 
 
 All issues

 New issue Issue creation is restricted in this repository 

 Issues

 Search Issues is : pr is : unmerged is : closed mxfp4 
 is:pr is:unmerged is:closed mxfp4 

 Search 

 Search results
 Open
 
 Closed

 Near-roofline NVFP4 quantization kernel 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 4516 
 # 4516 In pytorch/ao; · by santoshmo was closed on Jun 19, 2026 

 Add fused MXFP4 (E2M1) + Random Hadamard Transform CuTe DSL quantize cast (SM100) 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 4513 
 # 4513 In pytorch/ao; · by santoshmo was closed on Jun 19, 2026 

 [XPU] Add MXTensor Support on Intel GPU 
 ciflow/xpu label used to trigger xpu CI jobs label used to trigger xpu CI jobs 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 module: inference quantize_ api inference flow quantize_ api inference flow 
 xpu Intel XPU related features Intel XPU related features 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 4468 
 # 4468 In pytorch/ao; · by xiaowangintel was closed on Aug 25, 2026 

 Add MXFP4/MXFP8 support for GPTQ quantization and separate eval script 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 3980 
 # 3980 In pytorch/ao; · by jcaip was closed on Mar 3, 2026 

 Add MXFP4/MXFP8 support for GPTQ quantization and separate eval script 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 3979 
 # 3979 In pytorch/ao; · by jcaip was closed on Mar 3, 2026 

 Add MXFP4 support for GPTQ quantization and separate eval script 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 3967 
 # 3967 In pytorch/ao; · by jcaip was closed on Feb 27, 2026 

 Add MXFP4 support for GPTQ quantization and separate eval script 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 3921 
 # 3921 In pytorch/ao; · by jcaip was closed on Mar 3, 2026 

 [xpu][test] Port 2 test/prototype/mx_formats/test_{kernels, test_mx_tensor} UT files to intel XPU 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 topic: for developers Use this tag if this PR is mainly developer facing Use this tag if this PR is mainly developer facing 
 xpu Intel XPU related features Intel XPU related features 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 3409 
 # 3409 In pytorch/ao; · by zxd1997066 was closed on Jun 23, 2026 

 Support mx_tensor and enable it's test on Intel GPU 
 ciflow/xpu label used to trigger xpu CI jobs label used to trigger xpu CI jobs 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 topic: improvement Use this tag if this PR is an improvement (doesn't fit into any of the other categories) Use this tag if this PR is an improvement (doesn't fit into any of the other categories) 
 xpu Intel XPU related features Intel XPU related features 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 3248 
 # 3248 In pytorch/ao; · by xiaowangintel was closed on Jun 11, 2026 

 Fixes MX formats build for blackwell 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 topic: bug fix Use this tag for PRs that fix bugs Use this tag for PRs that fix bugs 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 2214 
 # 2214 In pytorch/ao; · by syed-ahmed was closed on Jun 6, 2025 

 Footer

 © 2026 GitHub, Inc.

 Footer navigation

 Terms 

 Privacy 

 Security 

 Status 

 Community 

 Docs 

 Contact 

 Manage cookies

 Do not share my personal information

 You can’t perform that action at this time.
