Issues · pytorch/ao · GitHub 

 Skip to content 

 Navigation Menu
 
 Sign in Appearance settings

 Platform AI CODE CREATION GitHub Copilot Write better code with AI 
 GitHub Copilot app Direct agents from issue to merge 
 MCP Registry Integrate external tools 

 DEVELOPER WORKFLOWS Actions Automate any workflow 
 Codespaces Instant dev environments 
 Issues Plan and track work 
 Code Review Manage code changes 
 Code Quality Enforce quality at merge 

 APPLICATION SECURITY GitHub Advanced Security Find and fix vulnerabilities 
 Code security Secure your code as you build 
 Secret protection Stop leaks before they start 

 EXPLORE Why GitHub 
 Documentation 
 Blog 
 Changelog 
 Marketplace 

 View all features 

 Solutions BY COMPANY SIZE Enterprises 
 Small and medium teams 
 Startups 
 Nonprofits 

 BY USE CASE App Modernization 
 DevSecOps 
 DevOps 
 CI/CD 
 View all use cases 

 BY INDUSTRY Healthcare 
 Financial services 
 Manufacturing 
 Government 
 View all industries 

 View all solutions 

 Resources EXPLORE BY TOPIC AI 
 Software Development 
 DevOps 
 Security 
 View all topics 

 EXPLORE BY TYPE Customer stories 
 Events & webinars 
 Ebooks & reports 
 Business insights 
 GitHub Skills 

 SUPPORT & SERVICES Documentation 
 Customer support 
 Community forum 
 Trust center 
 Partners 

 View all resources 

 Open Source COMMUNITY GitHub Sponsors Fund open source developers 

 PROGRAMS Security Lab 
 Maintainer Community 
 GitHub Stars 
 Archive Program 

 REPOSITORIES Topics 
 Trending 
 Collections 

 Enterprise ENTERPRISE SOLUTIONS Enterprise platform AI-powered developer platform 

 AVAILABLE ADD-ONS GitHub Advanced Security Enterprise-grade security features 
 Copilot for Business Enterprise-grade AI features 
 Premium Support Enterprise-grade 24/7 support 

 Pricing 
 Search / 

 Sign in 
 Sign up Appearance settings

 You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 

 Dismiss alert 

 {{ message }}

 Uh oh!

 There was an error while loading. Please reload this page .

 pytorch
 
 / 
 
 ao 

 Public 

 Notifications
 You must be signed in to change notification settings 

 Fork
 620 

 Star
 3k 

 Code 

 Issues 
 300 

 Pull requests 
 484 

 Actions 

 Projects 

 Security and quality 
 0 

 Insights 

 Additional navigation options 

 Code

 Issues

 Pull requests

 Actions

 Projects

 Security and quality

 Insights

 Issues

 Assigned to me

 Created by me

 Mentioned

 Recent activity
 
 Views 
 Projects 
 Milestones 
 Labels 

 Feedback Preview 
 Collapse sidebar 
 
 All issues

 New issue Issue creation is restricted in this repository 

 Issues

 Search Issues is : pr is : unmerged is : closed int4 
 is:pr is:unmerged is:closed int4 

 Search 

 Search results
 Open
 
 Closed

 Assign XPU code ownership to liangan1 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 4715 
 # 4715 In pytorch/ao; · by liangan1 was closed on Aug 7, 2026 

 Fix CI test failures: fp32 precision leak and ROCm rowwise-fp8 warning 
 ciflow/rocm 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 module: not user facing Use this tag if you don't want this PR to show up in release notes Use this tag if you don't want this PR to show up in release notes 
 module: rocm 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 4639 
 # 4639 In pytorch/ao; · by vkuzo was closed on Jul 29, 2026 

 Wire MoE and MXFP8Linear training paths to CuTeDSL by default 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 module: training quantize_ api training flow quantize_ api training flow 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 4620 
 # 4620 In pytorch/ao; · by alexsamardzic was closed on Aug 5, 2026 

 Add CuTeDSL MXFP8 K-groups scale rearrange kernel 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 module: training quantize_ api training flow quantize_ api training flow 
 moe 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 4604 
 # 4604 In pytorch/ao; · by alexsamardzic was closed on Aug 5, 2026 

 Fix fake metadata for CuTeDSL 32x1 MXFP8 quantization 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 module: training quantize_ api training flow quantize_ api training flow 
 moe 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 4589 
 # 4589 In pytorch/ao; · by alexsamardzic was closed on Aug 5, 2026 

 Add CuTeDSL MXFP8 M-groups scale rearrange kernel 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 module: training quantize_ api training flow quantize_ api training flow 
 moe 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 4585 
 # 4585 In pytorch/ao; · by alexsamardzic was closed on Aug 7, 2026 

 [ROCm] Enable affine quantized, quant API, and integration tests on ROCm 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 topic: rocm 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 3941 
 # 3941 In pytorch/ao; · by brucechanglongxu was closed on Mar 18, 2026 

 Add MXFP8 support for GPTQ quantization 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 3896 
 # 3896 In pytorch/ao; · by jcaip was closed on Feb 17, 2026 

 [bc-breaking] deprecate old quantization configs 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 module: bc-breaking Use this tag if this PR breaks backward compatibility Use this tag if this PR breaks backward compatibility 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 3503 
 # 3503 In pytorch/ao; · by vkuzo was closed on Dec 18, 2025 

 Support HQQ for XPU/NPU int4 quantization 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 topic: improvement Use this tag if this PR is an improvement (doesn't fit into any of the other categories) Use this tag if this PR is an improvement (doesn't fit into any of the other categories) 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 3465 
 # 3465 In pytorch/ao; · by namgyu-youn was closed on Jan 28, 2026 

 [WIP] Move float8 cutlass sparse layout to Float8SemiSparseTensor 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 3182 
 # 3182 In pytorch/ao; · by bbeckca was closed on Oct 31, 2025 

 Add unit test: AWQ+HQQ 
 ci 
 CLA Signed This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. This label is managed by the Facebook bot. Authors need to sign the CLA before a PR can be reviewed. 
 module: not user facing Use this tag if you don't want this PR to show up in release notes Use this tag if you don't want this PR to show up in release notes 
 
 Status: Closed (abandoned). 

 pytorch/ao number 3148 
 # 3148 In pytorch/ao; · by namgyu-youn was closed on Feb 3, 2026 

 Footer

 © 2026 GitHub, Inc.

 Footer navigation

 Terms 

 Privacy 

 Security 

 Status 

 Community 

 Docs 

 Contact 

 Manage cookies

 Do not share my personal information

 You can’t perform that action at this time.
