HTML_URL: https://arxiv.org/html/2401.09670v1
TEXT_LEN: 81415
=== HEAD ===
DistServe: Disaggregating Prefill and Decoding for Goodput-optimized Large Language Model Serving 

 Report GitHub Issue

 × 

 Title: 

 Content selection saved. Describe the issue below:

 Description: 

 Submit without GitHub 
 Submit in GitHub 

 arXiv is now an independent nonprofit! 
 Learn more 
 × 

 Back to arXiv 

 Why HTML? 

 Report Issue 

 Back to Abstract 

 Download PDF 

 Abstract 

 1 Introduction 

 2 Background and Motivation 
 
 2.1 LLM Inference 

 2.2 LLM Serving Optimization 

 2.3 Problems and Opportunities 

 3 Tradeoff Analysis 
 
 3.1 Analysis for Prefill Instance 

 3.2 Analysis for Decoding Instance 

 3.3 Practical Problems 

 4 Method 
 
 4.1 Placement for High Node-Affinity Cluster 

 4.2 Placement for Low Node-Affinity Cluster 

 4.3 Online scheduling 

 5 Implementation 

 6 Evaluation 
 
 6.1 Experiments Setup 

 6.2 End-to-end Experiments 

 6.3 Latency Breakdown 

 6.4 Ablation Studies 

 6.5 Algorithm Running Time 

 7 Related Work 

 8 Conclusion 

 References 

 A Latency Model for LLM Inference 
 
 A.1 Symbol Definition 

 A.2 Prefill Phase Latency Modeling 

 A.3 Decoding Phase Latency Modeling 

 B DistLLM Placements in End-to-end Experiments 

 License: CC BY-SA 4.0

arXiv:2401.09670v1 [cs.DC] 18 Jan 2024

 DistServe: Disaggregating Prefill and Decoding for Goodput-optimized Large Language Model Serving

 Yinmin Zhong  Shengyu Liu  Junda Chen  Jianbo Hu  Yibo Zhu  Xuanzhe Liu
 
 Affiliation: Peking University Independent Researcher UC San Diego 

 Xin Jin  Hao Zhang
 
 Affiliation: Peking University Independent Researcher UC San Diego 

 Abstract

 DistServe improves the performance of large language models (LLMs) serving by disaggregating the prefill and decoding computation. Existing LLM serving systems colocate the two phases and batch the computation of prefill and decoding across all users and requests.
We find that this strategy not only leads to strong prefill-decoding interferences but also couples the resource allocation and parallelism plans for both phases. LLM applications often emphasize individual latency for each phase: time to first token (TTFT) for the prefill phase and time per output token (TPOT) of each request for the decoding phase.
In the presence of stringent latency requirements, existing systems have to prioritize one latency over the other, or over-provision compute resources to meet both.

 DistServe assigns prefill and decoding computation to different GPUs, hence eliminating prefill-decoding interferences. Given the application’s TTFT and TPOT requirements, DistServe co-optimizes the resource allocation and parallelism strategy tailored for each phase. DistServe also places the two phases according to the serving cluster’s bandwidth to minimize the communication caused by disaggregation. As a result, DistServe significantly improves LLM serving performance in terms of the maximum rate that can be served within both TTFT and TPOT constraints on each GPU.
Our evaluations sho
=== HITS ===
[1] Under the SLO attainment of 90%, the maximum achievable goodput on a single A100 GPU, which is constrained by the more stringent one of TTFT and TPOT requirements, is about 1.6 requests per second (rps).
[2] Ideally, by allocating 2 GPUs for prefill and 1 GPU for decoding, we can effectively serve the model with an overall goodput of 10 rps, or equally 3.3 rps per GPU, which is 2.1x higher than existing systems.
[3] We start by developing notations using the single-device case without parallelism: each request’s execution time, denoted as D D , remains constant due to uniform prefill length.
[4] It is worth noting that when the model can fit into the memory of a single GPU, replication is a competitive option in addition to model parallelism for both prefill and decoding instances, to linearly scale the system’s rate capacity.