HTML_URL: https://arxiv.org/html/2404.02015v1
TEXT_LEN: 59567
=== HEAD ===
MuxServe: Flexible Multiplexing for Efficient Multiple LLM Serving 

 Report GitHub Issue

 × 

 Title: 

 Content selection saved. Describe the issue below:

 Description: 

 Submit without GitHub 
 Submit in GitHub 

 arXiv is now an independent nonprofit! 
 Learn more 
 × 

 Back to arXiv 

 Why HTML? 

 Report Issue 

 Back to Abstract 

 Download PDF 

 Abstract 

 1 Introduction 

 2 Background and Motivation 
 
 2.1 LLM Inference 

 2.2 Distributed LLM Inference 

 2.3 LLM Popularity Varies 

 2.4 Multiplexing Opportunity on GPU 

 3 Method 
 
 3.1 Problem Formulation 

 3.2 Placement Algorithm 

 3.3 Maximize Intra-unit Throughput 

 3.4 Resource Manager 

 4 Evaluation 
 
 4.1 Experimental Setup 

 4.2 End-to-End Results for Synthetic Workloads 

 4.3 End-to-End Results for Real Workloads 

 4.4 Ablation Studies 

 5 Related Work 

 6 Conclusion 

 7 Impact Statement 

 References 

 License: arXiv.org perpetual non-exclusive license

arXiv:2404.02015v1 [cs.DC] 02 Apr 2024

 MuxServe: Flexible Multiplexing for Efficient Multiple LLM Serving

 Jiangfei Duan
 
 Affiliation: Shanghai AI Laboratory
 
 Affiliation: The Chinese University of Hong Kong

 Runyu Lu
 
 Affiliation: Huazhong University of Science and Technology

 Haojie Duanmu
 
 Affiliation: Shanghai AI Laboratory
 
 Affiliation: Shanghai Jiao Tong University

 Xiuhong Li
 
 Affiliation: Peking University
 
 Correspondence to: lixiuhong@pku.edu.cn 

 Xingcheng Zhang
 
 Affiliation: Shanghai AI Laboratory

 Dahua Lin
 
 Affiliation: Shanghai AI Laboratory
 
 Affiliation: The Chinese University of Hong Kong

 Ion Stoica
 
 Affiliation: UC Berkeley

 Hao Zhang
 
 Affiliation: University of California San Diego
 
 Correspondence to: haozhang@ucsd.edu 

 Abstract

 Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable performance, and organizations are racing to serve LLMs of varying sizes as endpoints for use-cases like chat, programming and search. However, efficiently serving multiple LLMs poses significant challenges for existing approaches due to varying popularity of LLMs.
In the paper, we present MuxServe, a flexible spatial-temporal multiplexing system for efficient multiple LLM serving. The key insight behind is to colocate LLMs considering their popularity to multiplex memory resources, and leverage the characteristics of prefill and decoding phases to separate and flexibly colocate them to multiplex computation resources.
MuxServe formally formulates the multiplexing problem, and proposes a novel placement algorithm and adaptive batch scheduling strategy to identify optimal colocations and maximize utilization.
MuxServe designs a unified resource manager to enable flexible and efficient multiplexing. Evaluation results show that MuxServe can achieves up to 1.8 × 1.8\times higher throughput or processes 2.9 × 2.9\times more requests within 99 % 99\% SLO attainment.

 Keywords: 
Machine Learning, ICML

 1 Introduction

 Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) are t
=== HITS ===
[1] 2.2 Distributed LLM Inference Distributed inference is introduced to accommodate LLMs that cannot fit in a single GPU or accelerate inference process, and includes two categories.
[2] Each stage is placed on one GPU with data dependency, and executed in a pipeline fashion (i.e.
[3] A significant difference lies in the memory bottleneck: the huge memory requirements render previous approaches ineffective since it is unfeasible to hold multiple LLMs in a single GPU.
[4] Flexgen: High-throughput generative inference of large language models with a single GPU.