HTML_URL: https://arxiv.org/html/2408.00741v1
TEXT_LEN: 80332
=== HEAD ===
DynamoLLM: Designing LLM Inference Clusters for Performance and Energy Efficiency 

 Report GitHub Issue

 × 

 Title: 

 Content selection saved. Describe the issue below:

 Description: 

 Submit without GitHub 
 Submit in GitHub 

 arXiv is now an independent nonprofit! 
 Learn more 
 × 

 Back to arXiv 

 Why HTML? 

 Report Issue 

 Back to Abstract 

 Download PDF 

 Abstract 

 I Introduction 

 II Background 

 III Opportunities for Energy Efficiency 
 
 III-A Heterogeneous Energy-Performance Profiles 

 III-B Dynamic LLM Inference Workloads 

 III-C Reconfiguration Overheads 

 IV DynamoLLM: An Energy Management Framework for LLM Inference Clusters 
 
 IV-A Configuring Instances for Energy-Efficiency 

 IV-B Hierarchical Control for Dynamic Load 

 IV-C Reduced Overheads for Smooth Reconfiguration 

 IV-D Predictive Scheduling for Request Heterogeneity 

 IV-E DynamoLLM Implementation 

 V Evaluation 
 
 V-A Evaluation Setup 

 V-B Cluster-Level Experiments 

 V-C Sensitivity Studies 

 V-D Long Cluster-Level Experiments 

 V-E Large-Scale Simulations 

 V-F Cost and Carbon Emission 

 VI Related Work 

 VII Conclusion 

 References 

 License: CC BY-NC-SA 4.0

arXiv:2408.00741v1 [cs.AI] 01 Aug 2024

 DynamoLLM: Designing LLM Inference Clusters for Performance and Energy Efficiency

 Jovan Stojkovic

 Chaojie Zhang
 
 Affiliation: Microsoft Azure Research - Systems 

 Íñigo Goiri
 
 Affiliation: Microsoft Azure Research - Systems 

 Josep Torrellas

 Esha Choukse University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 
 
 Affiliation: Microsoft Azure Research - Systems 

 Abstract

 The rapid evolution and widespread adoption of
generative large language models (LLMs)
have made them a pivotal workload in various applications.
Today, LLM inference clusters receive a large number of queries with strict Service Level Objectives (SLOs).
To achieve the desired performance, these models execute on power-hungry GPUs causing the inference clusters to consume large amount of energy and, consequently, result in excessive carbon emissions.
Fortunately, we find that there is a great opportunity to exploit the heterogeneity in
inference compute properties and fluctuations in
inference workloads, to significantly improve energy-efficiency.
However, such a diverse and dynamic environment creates a large search-space where different system configurations ( e.g. , number of instances, model parallelism, and GPU frequency) translate into different energy-performance trade-offs.
To address these challenges, we propose DynamoLLM , the first energy-management framework for LLM inference environments.
DynamoLLM automatically and dynamically reconfigures the inference cluster to optimize for energy and cost of LLM serving under the service’s performance SLOs.
We show that at a service-level, DynamoLLM
conserves 53% energy and 38% operational carbon emissions, and reduces 61% cost to the customer, while meeting the latency SLOs.

 I Introduction 

 The exponential growth in
=== HITS ===
[1] Smaller models, such as Llama2-13B and Mixtral-8x7B, can run with any TP (even with a single GPU); their lowest-energy configuration is TP2 at 1.2 GHz.
[2] We run the experiment for 24-hours on 11 H100 servers with SinglePool and scale the number of instances based on the load in DynamoLLM.