HTML_URL: https://arxiv.org/html/2411.05288v1
TEXT_LEN: 52341
=== HEAD ===
1Introduction 

 Report GitHub Issue

 × 

 Title: 

 Content selection saved. Describe the issue below:

 Description: 

 Submit without GitHub 
 Submit in GitHub 

 arXiv is now an independent nonprofit! 
 Learn more 
 × 

 Back to arXiv 

 Why HTML? 

 Report Issue 

 Back to Abstract 

 Download PDF 

 Abstract 

 1 Introduction 

 2 Related Work 
 
 Balancing Activation Memory 

 Balancing Vocabulary Layers 

 3 Vocabulary Parallelism in Pipeline Parallelism 

 4 Vocabulary Passes Construction 
 
 4.1 A Naïve Approach 

 4.2 Definitions 

 4.3 Forward Phase Optimization 

 4.4 Backward Phase Optimization 

 5 Pipeline Scheduling 
 
 5.1 Scheduling Dependencies 

 5.2 Methodology 

 6 Experiments 
 
 6.1 Implementation 

 6.2 Setup 

 6.3 Comparison of Methods 

 6.4 Memory-Balanced Schedule 

 6.5 Scaling Analysis of Vocabulary Layers 

 7 Conclusion and Future Work 

 References 

 A Quantitative Analysis of Vocabulary Layers 

 B More Analysis of Interlaced Pipeline 
 
 B.1 Memory Analysis 

 B.2 Overhead of Tensor Parallel Communication 

 C Vocabulary Parallelism for The Input Layer 

 D V-Half Pipeline Scheduling 

 E Detailed Experiment Data 

 License: CC BY 4.0

arXiv:2411.05288v1 [cs.DC] 08 Nov 2024

 marginparsep has been altered.
 topmargin has been altered.
 marginparwidth has been altered.
 marginparpush has been altered.

 The page layout violates the ICML style. 

 Please do not change the page layout, or include packages like geometry,
savetrees, or fullpage, which change it for you.

 We’re not able to reliably undo arbitrary changes to the style. Please remove
the offending package(s), or layout-changing commands and try again.

 Balancing Pipeline Parallelism with Vocabulary Parallelism 

 Man Tsung Yeung   †  1  2  
 Penghui Qi   1  2  
 Min Lin   1  
 Xinyi Wan   1  

 † † footnotetext: † Work was done during an internship at Sea AI Lab.
 1 Sea AI Lab
 2 National University of Singapore.
Correspondence to: Xinyi Wan <wanxy@sea.com>.

 Preprint. 
 Abstract

 Pipeline parallelism is widely used to scale the training of transformer-based large language models, various works have been done to improve its throughput and memory footprint. In this paper, we address a frequently overlooked issue: the vocabulary layers can cause imbalanced computation and memory usage across pipeline stages, worsening pipeline bubbles and the memory bottleneck. To tackle this, we partition the vocabulary layers evenly across pipeline devices and group the computation into pipeline passes. To reduce the activation memory overhead, we propose several algorithms to reduce communication barriers within vocabulary layers. Additionally, we utilize a generalizable method to integrate Vocabulary Parallelism with existing pipeline schedules. By combining these techniques, our methods effectively balance the computation and parameter memory, with only a small constant activation memory overhead. Notably, when combined with activation memory-balanced schedu
=== HITS ===