[Feature]: Per-sequence speculative decoding · Issue #17984 · vllm-project/vllm · GitHub 
 Skip to content 
 Navigation Menu
 Sign in Appearance settings
 Platform AI CODE CREATION GitHub Copilot Write better code with AI 
 GitHub Copilot app Direct agents from issue to merge 
 MCP Registry Integrate external tools 
 DEVELOPER WORKFLOWS Actions Automate any workflow 
 Codespaces Instant dev environments 
 Issues Plan and track work 
 Code Review Manage code changes 
 Code Quality Enforce quality at merge 
 APPLICATION SECURITY GitHub Advanced Security Find and fix vulnerabilities 
 Code security Secure your code as you build 
 Secret protection Stop leaks before they start 
 EXPLORE Why GitHub 
 Documentation 
 Blog 
 Changelog 
 Marketplace 
 View all features 
 Solutions BY COMPANY SIZE Enterprises 
 Small and medium teams 
 Startups 
 Nonprofits 
 BY USE CASE App Modernization 
 DevSecOps 
 DevOps 
 CI/CD 
 View all use cases 
 BY INDUSTRY Healthcare 
 Financial services 
 Manufacturing 
 Government 
 View all industries 
 View all solutions 
 Resources EXPLORE BY TOPIC AI 
 Software Development 
 DevOps 
 Security 
 View all topics 
 EXPLORE BY TYPE Customer stories 
 Events & webinars 
 Ebooks & reports 
 Business insights 
 GitHub Skills 
 SUPPORT & SERVICES Documentation 
 Customer support 
 Community forum 
 Trust center 
 Partners 
 View all resources 
 Open Source COMMUNITY GitHub Sponsors Fund open source developers 
 PROGRAMS Security Lab 
 Maintainer Community 
 GitHub Stars 
 Archive Program 
 REPOSITORIES Topics 
 Trending 
 Collections 
 Enterprise ENTERPRISE SOLUTIONS Enterprise platform AI-powered developer platform 
 AVAILABLE ADD-ONS GitHub Advanced Security Enterprise-grade security features 
 Copilot for Business Enterprise-grade AI features 
 Premium Support Enterprise-grade 24/7 support 
 Pricing 
 Search / 
 Sign in 
 Sign up Appearance settings
 You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. 
 Dismiss alert 
 {{ message }}
 Uh oh!
 There was an error while loading. Please reload this page .
 vllm-project
 / 
 vllm 
 Public 
 Uh oh!
 There was an error while loading. Please reload this page .
 Notifications
 You must be signed in to change notification settings 
 Fork
 22.1k 
 Star
 91.6k 
 Code 
 Issues 
 2.4k 
 Pull requests 
 5k+ 
 Discussions 
 Actions 
 Projects 
 Security and quality 
 76 
 Insights 
 Additional navigation options 
 Code
 Issues
 Pull requests
 Discussions
 Actions
 Projects
 Security and quality
 Insights
 [Feature]: Per-sequence speculative decoding   #17984 
 New issue 
 Copy link 
 New issue 
 Copy link 
 Closed as not planned 
 Closed as not planned 
 [Feature]: Per-sequence speculative decoding #17984 
 Copy link 
 Labels
 feature request New feature or request New feature or request stale Over 90 days of inactivity Over 90 days of inactivity 
 Description
 yesredpig 
 opened on May 12, 2025 
 Issue body actions 
 🚀 The feature, motivation and pitch
 1. Problem 
 Currently, increasing batch size in vLLM's Speculative Decoding inference causes inefficiency.
When using the LLaMA 1B SSM model on the LLaMA 70B Original model, a performance reversal occurs at Batchsize 32.
In addition, when the num_speculative_tokens  (SL; speculative length) is large, the inefficiency increases further as the batch size increases (Fig. 2).
 vLLM was also aware of the need for optimization for this. ( https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T-JaS2T1NRfdP51qzqpyakoCXxSXTtORppiwaj5asxA/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.kk7dq05lc6q8 )
 2. Previous work in vLLM  
 To handle the increasing batch size in SD, vLLM has been performing the following tasks: Batch Expansion #3103 and  MQA (Multi-Query Attention) Scorer
 "Batch expansion" expands the batch by the factor of k (num_speculative_tokens). Each original sequence + one proposal token become a separate sequence in the expanded batch for the target model's scoring pass. Because of the "expansion" it has drawn backs as it increases memory usage and attention calculation by factor K.
To overcome the drawbacks, MQAScorer utilizes specialized MQA kernels (when available) to score all k proposal tokens for each sequence without expanding the batch size explicitly.
 Both Batch Expansion and MQA Scorer face performance degradation on dynamic shape & CUDA Graphs. if K ( num_speculative_tokens ) changes each iteration or across sequences. CUDA graph can't hadling the dynamic shape/size.
 Ultimately, the current vLLM batch size processing method can only handle static SL that the K ( num_speculative_tokens ) set before inference.
 3. Dynamic SL  
 Even if a piece-wise CUDA graph is applied to MQA, the inefficiency caused by each sequence in a batch having a FixedSL value is not resolved. Also, when using models such as EAGLE2 that use tree-attetion, you need to use SL 32, etc., but as the batch grows, the MQA padding space grows larger.
 The following experiment is the result of checking until rejection occurs after setting max SL to 60. The experimental results show that OracleSL has a large range from 1 to 60, and that it infers 117 times less than when inferred by setting it to the optimal SL value of 4. Since the target model is 8B, there was no significant difference in speed, but if the target model is large, the difference between OracleSL and StaticSL will be large.
 Previous papers have proven that it is effective to have a different SL for each sequence and a different SL for each iteration.
 BASS ,
 DISCO ,
 SPRINTER ,
 AdaEDL 
 4. CONCLUSION  
 In conclusion, per-sequence decoding is necessary to apply dynamicSL to each iteration and each sequence in the batch and to resolve inefficiency due to increasing batch size.
 My team are implementing per-sequence decoding in the flash-attention2 kernel. However, we are currently developing with vLLM 0.8.4, so it would be nice if the schedule for SD updates in vLLM V1 could be in sync.
 Alternatives
 No response 
 Additional context
 No response 
 Before submitting a new issue...
 Make sure you already searched for relevant issues, and asked the chatbot living at the bottom right corner of the documentation page , which can answer lots of frequently asked questions.
 Reactions are currently unavailable 
 Activity
 Sign up for free to join this conversation on GitHub. Already have an account? Sign in to comment 
 Metadata
 Metadata
 Assignees
 No one assigned 
 Labels
 feature request New feature or request New feature or request stale Over 90 days of inactivity Over 90 days of inactivity 
 Type
 No type 
 Projects
 No projects 
 Milestone
 No milestone 
 Relationships
 None yet 
 Development
 No branches or pull requests 
 Issue actions
 Open in GitHub Copilot app 
 Footer
 © 2026 GitHub, Inc.
 Footer navigation
 Terms 
 Privacy 
 Security 
 Status 
 Community 
 Docs 
 Contact 
 Manage cookies
 Do not share my personal information
 You can’t perform that action at this time.
